Good morning, everybody.
Welcome to session 301,
Automated Testing on Mac OS X.
I'm John Montbrien from
Apple Developer Relations,
and I'm pleased to introduce your host,
John Comiskey,
who will be speaking to you.
He's a senior engineer from
AppleScript Engineering.
And welcome, John Comiskey.
Thank you.
Thank you, John.
Good morning,
and thank you for being here.
I'm John Comiskey.
I'm an engineer in the AppleScript group.
I'm going to talk to you today
for about 15 minutes about using
AppleScript to test your application,
and then some gentlemen from Redstone
Software will be talking about Eggplant,
a much more high-powered way
of testing your application.
So this session will cover ways to use
AppleScript to test your application.
Thorough testing is crucial.
You want to make sure that your
program works correctly before
you ship it to your customers.
And the only way to do that
is with thorough testing.
And making sure everything
works exactly right.
We like to encourage people to use
AppleScript to test their applications
because it has a lot of advantages,
it's very flexible.
You can test what you want to test.
You write the test yourself,
you control them.
It's extensible,
every time you add something
new to your program,
you can add new AppleScripts
that test those features.
It can be very complete.
You can probe every single
corner of your application,
press it into all of its
boundary cases this way.
It improves your accuracy.
You can keep track of what the
results of your tests were from one
execution to the next and make sure
that you're getting the right answer.
You can repeat those
tests time after time.
Each time you change your application,
you can repeat all your tests
and prove to your boss that
you haven't broken anything.
And it's controllable.
You say what's going to be tested.
You can have a small test that
you run every single time that
you build the application,
a larger test that you run
just before you turn it over
to your testing organization,
and then they can have a
massive suite of tests,
like I said, that probe every single
corner of your application.
And the best thing is that it
all goes a lot faster than if
you're trying to do it by hand.
So we're going to cover
lots of things today.
You have to plan for scriptability.
It just doesn't happen all by itself.
You're going to want to
instrument your code so that when
you're driving it with scripts,
you know what's happening.
You can follow the flow and
make sure that that's what
you wanted to have happen.
You want to ensure that
you have code coverage.
Like I said, probe into every single
corner of your application.
Make sure that it all works,
not just the most frequently used stuff.
Last year in Session 311,
we talked a lot about using Apple's
GUI scripting to test your application.
I'm going to say a little
bit more about that today.
And then the most important
part is to sustain the effort.
It's nice to have a good set of tests,
but it's very important to keep them
up-to-date as your program changes.
And then, like I said,
the fellows from Redstone will
be talking to you about Eggplant.
Last year,
we had a very long session about
how to design a dictionary.
That's session 414.
If you have the DVDs,
you can watch it there.
If not,
it's available on the developer website.
We also promised you some guidelines
for putting together your dictionary,
and Chris Nebel did an
excellent job of that,
and those are now available
also on the developer website.
So you should definitely look at
the scripting interface guidelines.
Even if your program
is already scriptable,
you should look at the guidelines
because it might help you out.
Even if all you do is go through
and change some of the comments,
your dictionary might be easier to use.
If you're using Cocoa to
do your scriptability,
it's necessary to align the
objects in your dictionary with the
Cocoa objects inside your program.
Even if you're not using Cocoa,
you're going to have to have
some kind of mapping from
your dictionary to your code.
In Cocoa,
it's very direct and one-to-one.
You're going to want to streamline this
though from the user's point of view.
You don't necessarily want to show
them all the ugly guts of your program.
You want to name things what your
users call them and make them interact
the way your users are familiar
with using them through the GUI.
If you absolutely have to,
you can put in a private test suite
that doesn't ship to your customers,
which will allow you to get to
some of the lower-level things
that you know you need to test,
but are not likely to be
useful to the end users.
And you're going to want to cover all
the functionality of your program.
You're going to want to make sure
that there's some way to test and
get at everything your program does.
That might be a pretty
daunting task at first.
So we encourage you to go
ahead and phase this operation,
and each release add a little bit more
scriptability than the time before.
And that way you'll get there
at least in a couple of steps.
To know what your code is doing inside,
it's got to be instrumented.
And you can do this
lots of different ways.
If your company standardizes on a
particular kind of profiling software,
then of course you should use that.
But if not, there's other ways to do it.
First thing you're going to want to
do is build a skeleton of your code.
If your application already exists,
you're going to skip this part.
But if you're writing a new application,
you're going to need Cocoa objects
for each of the objects in
your AppleScript dictionary.
You're going to have to have accessors
for all the properties of those objects.
And you're going to have to have
accessors for all the elements that
can be inside of those objects.
If you have commands in your dictionary,
you're going to need methods
to handle those as well.
If the command is directed
at a particular object,
such as send mail,
then the method goes on the mail object.
If it's directed towards
the application itself,
such as sleep,
then that method is going to
be coded slightly differently.
And it's going to attach
to the application rather
than one of your objects.
You're going to need to add some
kind of instrumentation to your code.
What I do is really very simple.
I want to create a record
of where my program's been.
I want to know every
routine that I've called,
maybe what the input looked like,
and maybe whether it passed or failed.
So you're going to want to create
a record of where you've been.
You're going to want to log any
relevant error conditions that occur.
If a file is supposed
to open and it doesn't,
you're going to want to log that.
If you've got a problem
with leaks in your program,
you can track allocation and deallocation
and make sure that everything balances.
And like I said,
it doesn't have to be fancy.
This is what I use.
It's just a couple of macros,
and if you set that
switch from zero to one,
all of these macros expand.
When you run an AppleScript,
you'll get a very extensive list
of what your program's done.
And then if you set the switch
back to zero and recompile,
it all just goes away.
So it's not part of the
program that you ship.
When you look at these logs,
you're going to want to
do a couple of things.
You're going to have to understand why
your code did what it did and justify it.
You don't want to be running off
into the weeds and doing a lot of
computation that's not necessary.
If you generate an error condition,
you're going to want to investigate why.
You might be testing an error condition,
so you're doing it on purpose.
Or you might be trying to, like I said,
open a file and for some
reason it's not there.
You're going to want to balance all
of your allocation and deallocations
and make sure that you're not leaking.
And you're going to want to retain
a record of all of this so that
when you repeat the test later,
you can make sure that it did
the same thing the same way.
Or it didn't do the
same thing the same way,
and that's the fix to the problem.
And this is an example of what
I see when I run one of my programs
with the logging turned on.
I've got my initials in there because
it gives me a nice string to search for
that's not likely to occur anywhere else.
It lets the people I work with
know who it was that put this
log message in there in case they
want to know what it's about.
And this here is fetching the startup
disk from the System Events program.
It calls the startup disk
[Transcript missing]
You're going to want to test
all the corners of your program.
You want to test trivial things,
things that you don't expect to work,
edge conditions, really large numbers,
really small numbers.
You're going to want to
force all the errors.
What happens when you tell your program
to open a file that doesn't exist?
You want to make sure that the end user
is going to receive a meaningful response
that tells him something's gone wrong
and you need to change your script.
One thing that AppleScript can't do
particularly well is get at the glue
code that you write to bind your
view and your model objects together.
AppleScript drives your model
objects more or less directly.
If you've got a lot of glue code that
stages things back and forth between
your model objects and your view objects,
you're going to need a way to test that.
One way is to write less code.
If you use something like Cocoa Bindings,
you'll write a lot less glue code and
you'll have to do a lot less testing.
You don't have to test the
code that you don't write.
Apple's GUI scripting we
talked about last year.
It can be used to do a lot of things.
Mostly it can access things that are not
scriptable to begin with and allow you
to get past blockages in your workflows.
There are several things
it does particularly well.
It does exercise all of your glue code.
Since it does come in through the view,
it's going to exercise your glue code.
And if that's what you're trying to do,
GUI scripting can be
a good way to do that.
It recreates end-user scenarios exactly.
If you've got a report from the field
that if I select this menu and then
this menu and then press this button,
something bad happens,
then you can recreate that scenario
exactly in your tests and see what it is
that the user is talking about and then
repeat that test over and over again.
If you're doing a phased implementation
of AppleScript in your program,
you're still going to want
to test the rest of it.
And you can use GUI scripting to do that.
You don't have to write any
code for GUI scripting to work.
You just have to turn on accessibility.
And if you're testing your program
specifically for 508 compliance,
there's a tool that's going to
be introduced here this week for
testing accessibility compliance.
You can also use GUI scripting
to do that yourself,
starting right away.
You're going to need to use GUI scripting
if your workflow depends on other
applications that you don't control.
Perhaps your application
interacts with an application
written by another company,
and that application
either isn't scriptable,
or some key part of it that
you need isn't scriptable.
You can use GUI scripting
to get past that.
This is what GUI scripting
was invented for,
for unblocking workflows for
scripting the unscriptable.
And it may be what your
customers are using.
If your application's
not fully scriptable yet,
your end users may have worked around
that by writing GUI scripts of their own.
If they've integrated those
into mission-critical workflows,
you're going to have to make sure
you don't break those things before
you ship a revision of your code.
GUI scripting has got some limitations,
though.
It shouldn't be used as a substitute
for your own scriptability.
It's easy to get started
on GUI scripting,
but it's hard to maintain.
One of the reasons is
a lot of applications,
the view layer has a complicated
containment hierarchy.
There's controls inside of
controls inside of controls.
And if you ever revise your application,
relay out any of the screens,
then you're going to have to also
revise all of your GUI scripts as well.
And whatever it is you're trying to
do is going to be bounded by the GUI.
You might not be able to generate
the stress conditions that you'd
like to just through the GUI.
And if that's the case,
you're going to want to use
object model scripting to do that.
The most important part, I said,
is sustaining the effort.
It's easy to get started,
add a little bit of
scriptability to your program,
be very happy with it,
use it to do some important testing,
and then set it aside.
You'll revise your program every year,
every couple of months.
When you add that functionality,
you're going to want
to add testing for it,
and the way to add testing is to
add scriptability at the same time.
Whenever you do revise your program,
you're going to want to run
all of your prior tests,
everything that you've ever done.
Make sure that you haven't
regressed anything.
Make sure that you
haven't broken anything.
So you should hang on
to all of your tests,
and you should hang on to the
results of all of your tests,
so you can run them over again and make
sure they do the same thing each time.
And when you add bug
fixes to your program,
or you get reports from
the field from end users,
you're going to want to write
test cases that cover that.
Make sure that the end
user has what he needs.
You're going to put those in
your testing suite as well,
and repeat them every single
time you revise your program.
So, these are the things
I've talked about today.
You've got to plan for scriptability.
It doesn't just happen.
You've got to instrument your code
so you know what happened and why.
You've got to probe into all
of the corners of your code
so that you're testing all of
it instead of just part of it.
You want to use GUI scripting
where it's appropriate,
but you're going to want to use
your own model object scripting
to the greatest extent possible.
And you want to keep at
it over and over again.
Don't give up.
And I'd like to thank you and turn
this over to Doug Simons from Redstone,
and he's going to talk about Eggplant.
Thanks, John.
Good to see everyone this morning.
I'm Doug Simons,
one of the principal developers
at Redstone Software,
and as John said, we'll be talking about
our eggplant testing tool.
We also want to... Hello.
We also want to give you a little
bit of an overview of some different
approaches you might want to
consider in testing your application.
For each type of testing
we're talking about,
we'll look at what are the
goals of testing and what value
automation brings to that process.
And we'll try and give you some
concrete examples of each of these
to give you some idea of how you
want to spend your testing efforts.
So, as I said, we'll talk about Eggplant.
Eggplant is an
interface-level testing tool,
and we'll give you some
idea of how that works,
because we'll be using that in some
of the examples that we're presenting.
Some of the different kinds of
testing that we're going to talk
about this morning are unit testing,
which is to test your
code at a low level.
Look at functional testing,
which is testing how a user
might interact with your
application through use cases.
Stress testing,
you want to test your application
in depth and really push it to its
limits in a number of different ways.
Performance testing,
to measure how fast your
application is running.
And integration testing,
to test your application in a
broader picture of the context
of where it will be running.
will give you a little bit of idea
of some of the types of information
and results you might be looking
to get from your testing process.
And finally,
we'll take a look at some additional
uses of automation beyond testing.
So let me tell you a little
bit about how Eggplant works.
As I said,
it's an interface-level testing tool.
It, in fact, allows you to drive your
application exactly as a user would.
So how does that work?
Well, it's a two-computer system.
Eggplant runs on your Mac OS X machine,
and it connects over a TCP/IP network
to any computer running a VNC server.
How many of you have
used VNC or heard of it?
Yeah, quite a few.
VNC is a neat program that is an
open-source software that allows
you to access a computer remotely.
People use it to access their home
computer from work or vice versa.
And Eggplant has a
VNC client built into it,
which allows it to access any
computer running a VNC server,
which is pretty much
any computer out there.
The VNC process gives Eggplant a
view of the screen of the other
computer and allows it to control
the keyboard and the mouse.
To that, Eggplant adds scripting,
which provides automation, of course.
We have a scripting
language called SenseTalk,
which is a very easy-to-understand,
English-like language that gives
you all the control that you need
to develop some sophisticated tests.
And so the end result is that
Eggplant can drive any software,
it doesn't matter what
language it is written in,
since we're driving directly
through the user interface,
and can be running on
any operating system.
So let's talk a little bit
about unit testing now.
The goal here is to verify
the correctness of your
application at the code level.
Ordinarily, unit tests are written to
test an individual function or
method within your application.
And in recent years,
a number of agile development
methodologies have become popular,
such as extreme programming.
Any of you extreme programmers
or agile developers?
Not too many in this crowd.
One common component to many agile
approaches to software development
is test-driven development.
The idea of test-driven development
is for developers to write
tests to verify their code.
Quite often,
the tests are written before the code,
and then you can develop the
code to satisfy those tests.
There are some good open-source free
tools for doing this kind of testing.
The first one was JUnit,
which is used for doing unit
testing of Java applications.
Since then, there have been a lot of
other tools of a similar sort.
There's one called OCUnit, for example,
to do unit testing of Objective-C code
that we use for our unit testing.
AppleScript, of course,
can also test your code
at a fairly low level,
interacting either with
individual modules or testing
the model of your application.
and John did a good job of covering a lot
of the benefits that automation brings in
terms of repeatability and consistency.
One of the other things
that's a great advantage,
of course,
of automation is that you can build
these unit tests into your build process,
providing a continual feedback to
the developers as they're developing
the application and revising it.
So that can be a big benefit.
Functional testing is a little
bit higher-level testing.
Now we're looking at how users
interact with the system.
And the goal here is to verify the
requirements of your application.
Most applications are developed
beginning with some requirements
that tell you what it is that the
application is supposed to be able to do.
And frequently these requirements are
written up in the form of use cases,
which are individual scenarios of how a
user would walk through some particular
process within the application.
A lot of
Functional testing is done manually,
and frequently this is done by
developing test cases that are
modeled after those use cases.
Again,
just so a manual tester can walk the
application through some particular
sequence and make sure that it's
performing the way that it should.
Using an interface-level
tool such as Eggplant,
you can automate those kinds of tests,
and this allows your
regression tests to be run,
again, after every build for
your functional tests,
in very much the same way
that your unit tests are run.
So I'd like to invite my
colleague Jonathan Gillaspie up.
He's going to be doing the demos today,
and he's going to show you how we'd use
Eggplant to do some functional testing.
Thanks, Doug.
Good morning.
As our first demonstration,
I'm going to be showing you an example,
as Doug said,
of a simple functional test script.
But for those of you who haven't
seen our product Eggplant before,
I also want to just give you an
idea of how easy it is to start
writing test scripts using that.
So as Doug mentioned,
Eggplat works by connecting
to a remote machine.
So let's go ahead and start by
connecting to my test system over here.
And you can see here that I'm
controlling the remote machine directly,
sending it keyboard and mouse events.
Just like this.
So if we wanted to create,
let's say we had a simple
use case that we wanted to
create a functional test for.
For my demonstration,
my first demonstration this morning,
I'm going to go ahead and just
do a little simple use case
using Apple's iTunes application.
So here you can see we've just
got a real simple use case.
We want to go ahead and launch iTunes.
We want to search the iTunes
library for a particular song.
We want to play that song.
And when that song's finished,
we want to go ahead and quit iTunes.
Just a typical use case scenario.
So let's see how we'd go about
scripting that using Eggplant.
The first thing we need to
do is create a test suite.
A suite in Eggplant is just a
collection of scripts and other
resources necessary to run a test.
And let's go ahead and create
our first simple functional test.
Now I could just start writing
a test script right here using
Eggplant's scripting language,
SenseTalk.
But instead,
let me take advantage of Eggplant's
script generation mode that makes
it real easy to write a test.
So I do that by switching from
live mode into capture mode.
Now I'm no longer interacting
with the remote machine directly.
Instead,
I have a selection rectangle that
I'm using to identify elements of the
remote machine that I want to work with,
graphically.
So the first step in our use case
was we wanted to launch iTunes.
So we're going to go ahead and do
that the exact same way a user would,
by clicking on the iTunes
application down here in the dock.
So I select the iTunes application,
and I tell Eggplant, using the toolbar,
that I want to click on that image.
Eggplant brings up a Save Image dialog,
and I go ahead and name
the image and save it.
And when that happens, when I do that,
three things happen.
The first is that Eggplant stores that
image over here in our test suite,
the iTunes icon.
The second thing that it
does is it goes ahead,
let me make that a little
bigger so you can all see it.
Second thing is it does is it
actually writes that script
command into our script.
And the third thing is it does is
it actually executes that line.
Click the iTunes icon.
And when that line is executed,
what Eggplant does is actually
searches through the remote
screen to find that image,
and when it finds it, it clicks on it.
You can see here that it's brought
up iTunes on the remote system.
So the next step in our use
case is we want to search the
library for a particular song.
As a user,
we do that by clicking and entering
something up here in the search field.
And we identify the search field
by this search label right here.
Of course, we don't want to click
directly on the search label.
So Eggplant allows us to set what we
call a hotspot so that we can interact
to positions relative to an image.
So I'll just move that hotspot
directly above the search label.
And again, tell Eggplant we want to click
there in the search field.
You can see we have an
insertion point now.
And we can send keystroke commands
to the remote machine just as easily.
So let's go ahead and see if
there are any eggplant songs
over here in my iTunes app.
And sure enough, there's one.
So the next step in our use case
is to go ahead and play that song.
So we just do that, again,
the same way a user would,
by clicking on the Play button.
and David So we want to
continue on with our use case.
We want to make sure to
wait for that song to end.
iTunes goes ahead and changes
the play button to a pause
button while the song is playing.
So what we want to do is
wait for that pause button to
return back to a play button.
That's how we know the song has finished,
again, just like a user does.
So eggplant can wait for certain
elements to appear on the remote
screen using the wait for command.
The WAV4 command allows us to
specify a maximum period of time
for a particular image to show up.
In this example,
we'll go ahead and just give
it a maximum of 90 seconds.
If the image doesn't appear in that time,
it's going to quit it,
raise an exception, and fail the script.
Yeah, I'm just naming these images
as I record the script.
Yes, actually if you look over
here in our test script,
we can actually see all
these images being recorded.
I could have actually reused the
play image from before and that
would have been a better way to go.
So then the last step in our script is to
go ahead and quit the iTunes application.
We'll do that here through the menu.
So here we've written our first simple
functional test script using eggplant.
And I can go ahead and run it here now.
One, two, three, four, five.
If there was a cow from the eggplant
that ate Chicago-- You can see just
how analogous the functional test
So that's our first demonstration on
functional testing using eggplant.
Thanks, Jonathan.
We have slides again.
Let's talk a little bit
now about stress testing.
Functional testing and unit
testing are great to ensure that
your application is working and
doing what it's supposed to do,
what it's designed to do.
But you also are going to want to
push your application a little harder.
As John mentioned,
put in some unexpected conditions,
some things that are
likely to cause errors.
Test some of the boundary conditions
there in your application.
You don't really expect your
user to enter negative numbers,
perhaps,
for a duration of time or something.
But you know they will eventually.
And so you want to be sure to test
some of those exceptional situations.
So the goal here is not just to
verify that your application is
doing what it's designed to do,
but that it's not doing what
it's designed not to do.
And so you want to push it a bit there.
So the goal here is really
to find bugs and track them.
down to their source if you can.
Automation plays a really
critical role here.
It's always, of course,
very nice to be able to automate things,
to save some time and effort.
But when it comes to this
kind of stress testing,
you really want to be able
to do things repeatedly,
and scripts do that a lot
better than people do.
So you're going to want to be able
to iterate over large sets of data,
to try your application with
different combinations of input,
and also to be able to run tests
repeatedly to reproduce any
intermittent crashes you might have.
How many of you ever had bugs or reports
of bugs that were very hard to reproduce?
They happen.
In fact,
we had one in Eggplant a few months ago.
People ask us sometimes whether
we use Eggplant to test Eggplant.
As a matter of fact, we do.
We have a test that we
call our EP squared test,
or Eggplant squared, in which Eggplant is
driving another machine,
which is also running Eggplant,
to create and run some
tests on a third machine.
When we had this occasional
crash showing up,
we were able to run the Eggplant
squared test repeatedly overnight.
It takes about three or four minutes
for each time through the test.
Not something that a person would want
to sit there and do a hundred times over.
By doing this, we were able to find that
this particular crash occurred
once or twice every 100 runs.
We were able to track down
where it was occurring and
isolate it and fix the problem.
I'd like to ask Jonathan to
give us some more information.
a little demo of a data-driven test.
Thanks again.
As Doug and John Comiskey
before him pointed out,
many times when you're looking
to stress test your application,
you want to try providing
large amounts of varied data,
and sometimes you want to try doing the
exact same actions over and over again.
So for this demonstration,
I've created a simple
little data file here.
And I'm going to use this data file
to drive the address book application
to just create some records in
address book and then look up the
phone numbers once we've done that.
So let me bring up this script here.
I'll try and make that
a little bit larger.
So I'm actually going to walk through
this script using a new feature of
our upcoming release of Eggplant,
which is actually an
interactive debugger.
So when I run the script,
it's going to pause here after
the pause script command.
The first line in the script
is to call another script.
Here you see that
eggplant is fully modular.
We can call other scripts
passing parameters.
This particular script actually
will launch an application on the
remote system using the finder.
Let's step through that.
Or actually, I'll continue through that.
So here we are in the
address book application.
It's very easy to parse data
files and work with data in our
SenseTalk scripting language.
All we need to do there is create
a simple repeat loop with a
simple construct like repeat with
each line of file my data file.
Then inside that repeat loop we have
a number of interactive commands
similar to the first script we did.
We're just hitting command
N to create a new card.
We're typing in the first
name from the data file and
then the last name and so on.
and entering all these
through the user interface.
So we've gone ahead and entered all
five of our records for this data test.
And now, like I said,
we want to go ahead and validate the
information that Eggplant entered.
So we'll go ahead and do that by
just stepping in here and using the
find feature of the address book.
Again, very similar,
just interactive commands
with the remote system.
and David So I'll go ahead
and let that continue running.
A really important point I'd like to
make here is that this is all going
directly through the user interface,
just the way users would.
Back to our eggplant squared bug.
The eggplant squared bug was a bug
with the interface of our application.
It was a problem with
some thread timing we had,
which is one of the reasons it
only showed up occasionally.
And testing it from,
doing our unit tests and our model
tests didn't expose this bug,
but running it through Eggplant
through the interface did.
This becomes increasingly more important
with the faster machines like the G5s and
even more important with multiprocessor
machines that are really likely to expose
threading problems that you might have.
So that's a basic example of how
you would use Eggplant with some
data to do some data-driven testing
and vary the input and results.
Thanks.
Thanks, Jonathan.
Let's take a little look
at performance testing now.
Performance testing, of course,
is designed to measure the speed of your
application and how fast it's running.
Quite often, developers,
when they think about
performance testing,
are going to be concerned with the
speed of their code and the cool new
algorithm that they've devised to wring
the most out of their G5 processor.
But there's another type of
performance that's important also,
and that's the responsiveness of the
application as a user is using it.
And this is very important, of course,
because you want your users to be
happy with your application and not
frustrated as things are proceeding.
So, for example, you might have a search
feature in your application,
and you could test that with an eggplant
script that clicks on the search button
and then waits for up to 30 seconds,
perhaps, for whatever the next thing
is to show up on the screen
to indicate that it's running.
And you can see that
the search has finished.
And this is fine,
but 30 seconds is going to be an
awful long time for your users to wait
if it's actually taking that long.
And this script will only fail if,
in fact, it takes longer than 30 seconds.
By adding the lines shown in blue here,
you could check to see how long it
really takes that search to come back.
And if it's greater than five seconds,
then you could log a warning message to
indicate that there's a problem you may
want to look into in your application.
So, of course, in the case where you're
testing performance,
it's really important to be able
to gather consistent and repeatable
timing data that you can compare
from one build of your application
to the next to see if you're,
in fact, slowing down or have made
some improvements there.
Final type of testing we'd like to talk
about today is integration testing.
The goal here is to really ensure a
quality experience for your users.
Your application may work just
fine through your use cases and
your unit tests and all that,
but chances are nowadays your
application doesn't live on its own.
It's going to be interacting
with other applications.
It has to be able to go out
and live in the real world.
So it's really important that tested
in that kind of an environment.
You may also want to test a
complete process end-to-end.
If your application, for example,
produces data that it can export that can
then be read into an Excel spreadsheet,
perhaps,
or a Quicken or something like that,
you're going to want to test
not only that your program runs,
but that the data that it produces can
be read in those other applications
and looks the way it should.
You also may have different
configurations that you want to test.
Perhaps your program has some plug-ins
or other modules that are optional.
And so you're going to want to test
various combinations of things and
perhaps run all of your tests in each
of these different configurations.
And finally,
if you have a cross-platform application,
Obviously you're going to want to test it
on different platforms that it runs on.
Perhaps you have a web-based
application and there you need to
not only test on different platforms,
but in each of the different browsers
that you support on those platforms.
Even if you don't have a
cross-platform application,
you may want to test your program
running on different types of hardware,
different Macs.
This is a place where a remote
testing approach like Eggplant
offers can come in handy.
Perhaps you have a G5 that's in a
different department at your company and
you'd like to be able to run your tests
against that when you reach this stage.
You may have hardware at a
vendor's site even that you'd
like to run your tests on,
or perhaps at the Apple ADC compatibility
labs in Cupertino,
and that can be done remotely.
Obviously, again,
automation provides consistent
and repeatable results.
If you're running your
tests automatically,
you can do much more testing than you
would if you only had manual testers.
One of the big wins, obviously,
with automation always is that
you're eliminating a lot of your
manual testing time and giving
a much more efficient execution.
One of our customers develops tape
backup software that runs on Unix systems
and works with a lot of different tape
drives from different manufacturers.
Every time they get a new model of
tape drive from one of the vendors
or want to revise their application,
they have to validate that everything
is still working on all of these
different devices and on the different
operating systems that they support.
When they had a manual
process to do this,
it took them about two weeks to go
through all of their validation tests.
With Eggplant, they were able to write a
script that runs in eight hours.
By being able to run their
tests overnight like this,
of course, they not only saved a huge
amount of time and effort,
but they were actually able
to modify their approach to
developing their software.
You can imagine with a two-week testing
cycle at the end of every build,
you're not going to be able
to innovate quite as quickly.
So, Johnson's going to show us kind
of an interesting integration
test now on the demo machine.
Thanks.
So, for this next script,
let's say that my company wants to
offer a free trial license of its
software to all WWDC attendees.
We want to allow people
to come to the website,
fill out a web form,
get a trial license key,
download the software,
put in that license key,
run the application.
And test interactions that our
software has with the operating system.
We can validate this entire process
using something like Eggplant.
So, let's go ahead and just look
at this integration script
at a real high level here.
Again, we're going to reuse our
launch application command to
go ahead and launch up Safari.
And then we're just going to
go through that entire process.
We're going to go test the free
trial download form by going to
URL and filling out the form and then
grabbing the license key off the site.
Then we want to go ahead and download
the application using Safari,
make sure that downloads and the disk
image unpacks and installs correctly.
Then we want to go ahead and
move on and launch our eggplant
application and put in the license
key that we got from the website.
Then you could imagine we would
actually run a whole battery,
a whole series of functional
use case tests like we did
in the first demonstration.
But in particular,
we want to do things like
test its interactions.
All of eggplant's documentation
is written as PDF,
so we want to go ahead and
make sure that they all open up
properly in the preview application
and they can be read and seen.
And finally,
we want to go ahead and clean up and
quit out of that and go ahead and
even test the uninstallation process.
So we can go ahead and do
all of that with eggplant.
So I'm going to get started here.
We can just run the script.
And we can just sort of watch
it go through its paces.
Again, driving various components
all on that remote system.
An integration test like this
could also be a multi-system test.
We could initiate one
process on a machine,
close this connection,
open a connection to another machine,
and start processing there.
Here,
Eggplant automatically agrees to the
licensing agreement panel that comes up.
Here we're launching the application
and it says it needs a license,
so we'll plug in the one that
we pulled off the website.
Again, we could run a bunch
of eggplant tests now,
or we can just go and check and
make sure that the documentation
is coming up correctly.
So there it is,
the bookmarks and everything.
So having moved through all that,
we'll go ahead and just clean up,
clear out the license,
and quit and close Eggplant.
So there we're seeing an example of an
end-to-end process test of all of the
steps necessary for a full integration.
Thanks, Jonathan.
That was great.
So I think you can see the
power of automation there.
In about a minute and a quarter,
we were able to do all of that,
which is something that you'd like
to be able to validate after you're
ready to ship your application,
to be sure that it's all ready to go.
So some of the information that
you might be looking to get
as a result of your testing.
Of course, the first thing is that
you're looking for bugs.
You want to find any bugs that
you might have in your application
and be able to see what those are.
Project managers usually are also looking
to gather some statistics about how many
of your functional tests are passing
or failing at any given point in time
and hopefully reducing the failures
throughout the development cycle.
If you're doing some performance testing,
if that's important for your application,
of course you're going to want to
gather some timing metrics there.
So clearly that's an important thing.
Another really important piece, though,
is to provide some
feedback to developers.
And I don't know how many of you
who are developers may have had
situations where testers tell you,
"Oh, the thing crashed here," or,
"Something didn't work," but
they're not very specific always
about exactly how that occurred.
Or on the other side, of course,
testers are sometimes frustrated
that they tell the developers
that something doesn't work,
and they're not always believed.
and David Being able to provide
clear communication of exactly
what the steps were that led up
to a crash or a bug can be really,
really valuable.
And that's one of the key things
that automation can provide.
By having your test automated and
logging the information as it goes,
it can show you exactly
what the steps were and,
of course, you can reproduce that
for the developers.
And, of course,
automation also is really critical for
being able to reliably compare one run to
another and see the progress that you're
making during the development cycle.
Jonathan's going to give us a quick
view now of some results in Eggplant.
Thanks.
Eggplant automatically is going to
record results any time we run a script.
So let's go ahead and just look back at
the results it recorded for that last
integration demo that I ran for you.
So we just come into Eggplant
and go over to the results tab.
Here you can see it automatically
records each time a script is run,
and then it keeps statistics
on any errors or warnings or
exceptions that were raised.
If we actually click on that run,
and David You can actually see that
eggplant is actually logging every
interaction that it performs to the
remote system in terms of clicking what
time eggplant performed the action,
what action it performed,
and even where on the
screen that was found.
And we can step through all of this and
so you get a very clear sense of exactly
what was happening during the test,
even down to the exact
second that it happened.
And we can go ahead and double-click
on any of these lines to jump
back to the script and see what
command caused that interaction.
Of course, something that's really
important to know about testing
is how do errors get reported?
How do you tell when
something went wrong?
I'm going to go ahead and force
an error condition here in this
integration demo by having us go
to a web page that doesn't exist.
And then just go ahead and
run the script with that.
So it won't take too long before eggplant
tries to move through its script.
But lo and behold, the page isn't there.
The webmaster did something bad.
So Eggplant comes up and
says that a script failed.
And now if we go back
and look at our results,
we see that the result for
that execution is in red.
And again, we can follow through here
everything that Eggplant was doing,
including what it was trying to
do when it eventually failed.
It was trying to find the name field
to fill out the form on the website.
Any time a script fails,
Eggplant automatically grabs a
full-size screenshot of exactly what
the screen looked like when it failed,
so you can easily communicate to the
developers exactly what went wrong and
exactly what it had done beforehand.
So that's just a simple look
at the kind of logging results
that are important for testing.
Thanks, Jonathan.
And I might also note that all
of Eggplant's reporting is done
through standard text files that
you can easily import into other
reporting tools to generate whatever
kind of reports you might need.
[Transcript missing]
One of our customers was
interested in doing some
validation of third-party software.
They're a big organization with
hundreds of Windows machines,
and whenever they get
a new patch to Windows,
they're interested in knowing
before they deploy that patch
to all of their Windows boxes,
they'd like to know that all of
the applications that are critical
to their users are still working.
So they're interested in using
Eggplant to do this kind of
validation of other software.
running on the new version of
Windows before they deployed
that throughout the organization.
System administrators, of course,
do a lot of repetitive tasks in
maintaining systems throughout a company.
[Transcript missing]
One of our customers, Fuji Film,
has taken a formerly manual process of
validating X-ray film and automated that.
This is a process that is subject to
audit by the FDA and it's very critical
that this be done on a regular basis.
There's a variety of different kinds
of automation that are possible.
Hardware and BIOS-level testing is not
something maybe that would immediately
pop to mind for something that is
typically thought of as driving software.
But, in fact, most hardware, of course,
has some sort of an interface.
And if it's got an interface,
then eggplant can interact
with it and drive it.
We even have one customer who
is doing BIOS-level testing.
There's a hardware
KVM switch that supports VNC.
And they're able to use that
to have eggplant drive the
machine even at boot time.
We also have come up with
an idea of creating movies.
So we built in a feature into
Eggplant that will allow you to
capture a quick-time movie of exactly
what's going on on the remote screen,
either when you're interacting with
it live or under a script control.
Since you have already developed tests
now to walk your application through
the various use cases of how users are
going to interact with your system,
it might be kind of nice to be able
to capture that as a movie and present
that as part of your documentation.
And we're going to have a
quick demo now of movies.
Just really quickly for
our final demonstration,
here's a little script that I've
written that actually records a
QuickTime movie of that integration
demo that we've been working with.
The first thing it does is just
sets up some timing parameters,
and this just slows down the script
to make the movie easier for a user
to follow exactly what's going on.
And then we just say, start movie,
and go ahead and call the script
that we've already been working with.
I'm not going to run it and
have you watch the demo again,
but I'll go ahead and show
you the results of having
created this movie just before.
So again,
it's a process that we've already gone
through for testing and validating this,
but if we want to go ahead and
create a simple interactive
movie to show users how to do
something within our application,
it's real easy using Eggplant to
just throw a little wrapper around it
like this and create a little quick
30-second or minute-long QuickTime movie
that you can put up on your website.
One of the nice things about
creating a movie using a script,
of course,
is that if something changes in your
application or you decide there's a
little different way you'd like to
present that process to your users,
you can easily just modify your
script and recreate the movie.
It's a very quick process,
a lot easier than editing a movie file.
So, just to sum up,
we've talked today about a number
of different types of testing
and the kinds of value that
automation can bring to those.
Unit testing,
which is very important to validate
your code at the low level.
Functional testing to
test your use cases,
how the user is going to
be interacting with it.
Stress testing is very important
to bring out any bugs that may
be hiding in the application.
And performance testing, of course,
to make sure that it's running
at an acceptable speed.
Integration testing is often overlooked.
It's one of those things, though,
that really impacts the experience
that your users have with your
application when they get it.
We also talked a little bit about
some of the kinds of results and
information that you might be looking
for from your testing process,
and had a quick look at some different
uses of automation beyond testing.
So I hope this has been some information
that you can use to go home and improve
your own testing processes and turn out
some great applications for Mac OS X.
This is our contact information here.
We also have a booth
downstairs in the exhibit area.
We'd be very happy to talk to
you later today or tomorrow.
There's also a free download
of Eggplant that's available
to attendees of WWDC this year.
The URL is included in the information
that's available as part of this session.
or you can come talk to us in the booth.
And I'd like to open it up to questions.
Yes,
there's also some more information here
about additional information that's
available through the Apple website.